---
layout: post
title: "2001: A Space Odyssey + Bikini Planet"
---

I just cracked off another couple of books I purchased from [Barter Books](http://www.barterbooks.co.uk/)

##### 2001 a space odyssey - Arthur C. Clarke (ISBN 0-09-932680-9)

I grabbed this book remembering vaguely that I'd watched the film in the distant past but couldn't really remember much about it other than my father 
saying he didn't understand it. Right, that sounds like a good reason to purchase this particular book. Forgetting all that I'm glad I did. Firstly I 
really enjoyed it and would recommend that you read it before watching the film as the detail explains much of what is glossed over in the film. 
Secondly the chapters were short which is always good as it allows me the opportunity to grab some chapter to chapter reading time before I go to sleep 
(I hate leaving mid chapter). Thirdly it wasn't too long at 224 pages. The pace of the story is kept moving sufficient for you not to loose interest 
which is helped because it's a very basic story - not too many names and places to remember.

I decided to grab a copy of the film to see how it compared to the book. Although I enjoyed the film it wasn't as good as the book. There was a 5 
minute sequence at the beginning of a black screen (with some classical music being played) and a weird intermission of similar duration during the 
second half (same black screen and classical music). I would have found the opening sequence with the Apes totally unfathomable unless I'd read the 
book. I didn't enjoy the music during the sequence with the TMA2 at Jupiter and I found the sequence travel through the stargate was too long and very 
weird (which I guess it should have been). And the end, forget it; it just didn't make any sense at all. But then I never expect to get the ending of 
any film since they always baffle me. See [Kubrick 2001](http://www.kubrick2001.com/) for an explanation. Book 10/10 - Film 8/10

##### Bikini Planet - David Garnett (ISBN 1-85723-950-4)

I must admit I picked up this book because of the title and the titillating image (of a scantily bikini clad babe) on the front cover (come on I'm a 
bloke what did you expect) so I didn't really expect a classic. I wasn't disappointed because this was another nice easy read - call it fluff if you 
like. Grey matter was definitely not working overtime on this one. At 344 pages it was a bit longer than I'd have liked but once again it had short 
chapters (there was even a 1 page chapter). The story revolves around Wayne Norton who is an incompetent cop in 60's Las Vegas. He gets frozen in a 
cryogenic sleep chamber by a mobster and is woken up 300 years later. Much to his disappointment he realizes that his girlfriend is now dead and he has 
failed to loose his virginity. If you weren't already confused the story get's even more weird as for most of the remainder he is either naked or having 
sex with a female character he meets up with (who also spends much of the time naked). His adventures in the strange new world see him become embroiled 
in battle over the world's ultimate pleasure resort.

Although the plot was daft, any attempt at humor bypassed me. I like a simple ending in which everything is tied up and one I can understand. 
Unfortunately there are too many loose ends and the ending, of which there are 3 alternatives - which is a nice touch, is rushed and is therefore a 
little bit of an anti climax. Apparently there is a sequel titled <kbd>Space Wasters</kbd> but at Â£6.99 on Amazon and a less than enthusiastic single review 
of 1 star I think I'll give it a miss. Maybe one day if I unearth it at [Barter Books](http://www.barterbooks.co.uk/) I'll give it a go.